---
layout: master
title: Moving EurekaJ Into the Cloud
---

<div class="panel" style="width: 100%;">

h2. Storing your data in the Cloud

I wanted to be able to deploy the EurekaJ Manager application in a cloud environment, while still being able to quickly scale the application out when the time needed. Currently EurekaJ Manager stores its data using an embedded key-value database where the data is stored on the local filesystem (Berkeley DB JE). Berkeley DB JE (Java Edition) is an extremely fast key-value store and I knew it would be difficult to change out the data source due to the added latency issues. Besides, I wtill wanted to be able to deploy and run EurekaJ Manager using Berkeley DB JE for local installations, or installations on an internal network. 

For this to be viable at all, I needed to abstract away the data-access layer in EurekaJ Manager and I decided to allow third party plugins to be able to extend where and how EurekaJ Manager would persist its data. I would then supply EurekaJ Manager with two .Jar files (One of Berekely DB JE, and one for the Cloud storage), and letting the user specify which data-storage they wanted based on a configuration setting. 

h3. Architectural changes

Some obvious changes to the EurekaJ source had to be made to enable third-party plugins to implement the data-access interfaces. I started with moving all of my *DAO interfaces into a separate maven module - EurekaJ.API. I also needed to provide interfaces for each datatype that were moving in and out of the database. I decided that these interfaces would only expose getters, and that each side if the interface (both EurekaJ Manager and the plugin) would need to implement actual implementation classes tailored for each specific need. I ended up with having to create data type implementations for only the data types that EurekaJ Manager would create of modify, while in the plugin itself, I needed to create data type implementations for  all of the data types. The downside of this is that there is obviously about two and a half times as many classes involved with the data types, while the upside is a cleaner API on each side of the interface.

The plugin also needs to provide actual implementations of the DAO interfaces so that the application is able to use the plugin to store and retrieve data from the database. Because I wanted the deployer of EurekaJ Manager to be very specific about which data storage plugin to use for the installation I extended the plugin with a "pluginName" property. EurekaJ Manager will make sure that it will only use one of the data-store plugins. As each database has its own unique configuration options, each plugin will also accept a property list (java.lang.Properties) with the required properties. The deployer sets these properties inside a separate "database.properties" file that is supplied alongside the deployment ZIP file of EurekaJ Manager. 

Now that the plugin architecture was complete, and working as intended with the Berkeley DB JE database, things were set to create an additional plugin for the cloud-based storage. 

h3. SimpleDB The Cloud-ready key-value database from Amazon AWS

Amazon has recently added SimpleDB to its line of services offered as part of the AWS (Amazon WebService) offering. SimpleDB is a key-value store and as such, was very compatible with what I wanted to achieve with the data-access extension to EurekaJ. 

</div>
    