---
layout: master
title: EurekaJ Profiler 1.0.3 Released!
---

h2. Node deletion, Berkeley DB Cache sizing and refactored client application

If you are having trouble with EurekaJs memory running out of control, from version 1.0.3 its now possible to control the size of the underlying database cache though the config.properties file. So if you want to set the cache size to 512MB, add the following line to config.properties: 

eurekaj.plugin.berkeley.cachesize=536870912

A long-awaited feature, the ability to delete nodes from the Instrumentation Tree, has finally made it into the 1.0.3 version of EurekaJ. Nodes can be deleted via the Administration Panel. Note that only the actual node is deleted. The data collected for each node wont be deleted from the database until the org.eurekaj.delteStatsOlderThanDays property in the config.properties expire. 

h3. Downloads

EurekaJ 1.0.3 can be downloaded from: <a href="http://nightly.haagen.name/EurekaJ/1.0.3/">http://nightly.haagen.name/EurekaJ/1.0.3/</a>.

h3. Changelog

1.0.3 - cache sizing options and node deletion 

* Adding cache sizing options to the Berkeley DB plugin
* Adding deletion of TreeMenu nodes via the administration menu
* Restructuring the SproutCore app, so that the SC Buildtools isnt required to develop EurekaJ
* Started work on the SproutCore 2.0 port of the application

1.0.2 - Alert Plugin Phase 1

* Changed sending email via a plugin instead of via code internal to the manager (https://github.com/joachimhs/EurekaJ/issues/13)
* Moved away from System.out and System.err (about time) to Log4J
* Upgraded to Jetty 8.0.2.v20111006
* Added Alerts to the main Tree menu (https://github.com/joachimhs/EurekaJ/issues/17)

1.0.1 - Bug Fixes - 14. September 2011

* Fixed a bug with EurekaJ.Proxy where it was unable to login to the manager in some cases. 
