---
layout: master
title: Configuring EurekaJ Proxy to send tracing information from BTrace to EurekaJ Manager
---

<div class='panel'>
<h1>{{page.title}}</h1>

In version 1 of EurekaJ, the BTrace agent will log its tracing-output to a number of logfiles ending with .btrace.xx. EurekaJ Proxy is a small application that will parse these tracing-files and pass the information on to EurekaJ Manager through a SOAP interface. I an later version of EurekaJ, BTrace will be extended so that the user can opt to send tracing information straight from the BTrace agent to EurekaJ Manager. 

EurekaJ Proxy is distributed as a single .jar file. There are two things that needs to be configured to make EurekaJ Proxy do its job, the location of the BTrace trace-log files and the URL of the EurekaJ Manager REST interface. EurekaJ Proxy also needs to know the admin credentials to be able to access the REST interface on the manager-side. These properties is defined in a seperate "config.properties" file that is placed alongside the Proxy jar file.

{% highlight bash %}
eurekaj.proxy.scriptpath=/path/to/btrace/scriptoutput
eurekaj.proxy.endpoint=http://eurekaj.manager.url:portnumber
eurekaj.proxy.username=admin_username
eurekaj.proxy.password=admin_password
{% endhighlight %}

The Proxy is then started like you would expect: 

{% highlight bash %}
java -jar path/to/jarFile
{% endhighlight %}

EurekaJ Proxy should work fine with the standard 64MB of Heap space that the JVM will supply to the application. 
</div>